Hello and welcome again in this lecture we're going to talk about how to connect remotely.
Suppose if you're not sitting in front of the system and you're on your Windows machine or any other
Linux machine then how can you connect to the server that you want to connect to.
So what you do is you put an IP address or hostname as long as it's in the DNS.
You can use the host name as well but IP address.
In my case I've already saved it in this tool called party and Safari tool you can download on your
Windows machine.
If it's not already downloaded then you can use this.
I call this machine Roundhead as soon as I click load it brings up the IP address that I only saved
it and I call the section right here.
And when I open it it gives me a prompt you know I'm going to type in my user in
passport a minute.
So this is how you could connect remotely to another system that you're not in front of not suppose
you are already on a Linux machine.
There is another machine within the network that I can connect to.
The way I do that is S-sh which is the secure shell.
There are two ways you can connect via telnet and by S-sh and there's a little one called Remote sh
r r s h.
What S-sh is the most secure and most cables are that you going to be using was probably told it is
usually disable because it says the password in clear text.
So that's why telnet just have a bad reputation.
I had used most of the time.
So I always use S-sh.
So I'm going to another machine which is in the same network.
I'm going to use its IP address.
So I I to say S-sh root cause I don't know the I don't have it.
A regular user on that machine.
I do.
I know the root password.
So when I say root at that IP address or I will if I wanted to I can put a hostname as well.
As long as the DNS can look up the IP address I can use that as well.
So that's all you do.
I see a sh username at IP address or costly and Ill ask you for password.
I will copy and paste it because I've got a complicated password in there you know.
So you but is subject to a sheet and a blog right.
So this is how you log in by using putty or by using S-sh from the lead sheet.
OK.
One other topic that I want to discuss in this lecture is how to work with files how to create files
delete files copy files move files and directories.
OK.
So one way I've already showed you that you can just use touch command to create a file and then if
I want to write no like my file one file to file three there are empty files.
But suppose I want them empty want to put something in there.
So what I use I can use some kind of editor.
There's a vi at Richard there's a vi editor and there are several other so I'm using vi editor right.
And now inside the file that this file is not going to be empty because I'm going to write something
in it.
So I type it I insert mode and then I type my name is Joe.
Now this file is not empty anymore.
I just wrote something in it.
So this is how you create a file.
The guy is supposed to follow does not exist at all.
Like a test to default didn't exist.
I just used a vi editor and I created this file and I just wrote something in it and I'm going to do
this semi color.
Let me get to the bottom of this so you can see the whole thing.
So WQ bang is going to save and exit.
If you just do Q then it's going to exit without safety.
If you do w bank is going to save and let you stay in the.
So I suppose if I don't want one of these files.
So all I do is are it has to remove remove that file is gone.
If you do it at less There you will see it.
Test 2 is gone.
OK.
So you have created a file you have deleter file.
Now I want a copy watermark created in file 1 2 5 4.
OK so copy file 1 to file for the file for and you with their files one was there but let's see what's
inside.
File for now.
It copy the contents from file one into created files for first and then copy my content.
So they are identical.
So it's always a good idea to make a copy before you make any edits to any of the lyrics for assistance.
Always a good idea so that you have a backup copy and if you mess up then you can always go back.
Another way you can make a copy but that's that case you're not going to have a back.
Suppose if I were to do move and the file 1 5 5 5 5 doesn't exist right here what happens I do or less
like file when it's completely gone and file files there so that I don't have a backup but I have.
This is basically used to change to finally a file because for whatever reason I still like file what
I wanted it to be 5 5.
So I just moved all the content and just got rid of one in one step.
So poppys is still your bet or is your best friend.
You make a copy first and then do whatever you want with the file because then you have a copy of
directories you do and Khidir make directories.
That's what the shortest far less call at the horizon.
I don't know where this word popped into my head but just less creative director called Horizon.
And if you do it LS test it out see the colors different varieties of that tells you right there that
it is a directory.
If I do it less and less dash I'll look at this file.
This directory where it starts with the D
the right now this directory's empty it has no files underneath it.
Right.
So I can do R and D.
Know the horizon is removed if you move binary tree is gone.
However if I have files underneath it suppose a file created to get Victor horizon and then CD into
horizon now gone into the directory if you do a P.W. Dener present working directory you see whole Larry
has a directory called Horizon and inside that directory and now whatever file I create will be owned
by this directory.
So touch file
while 6.
So now this directory has a file underneath it.
I went one step up and now I'm going to do our FBI our horizon.
It's not letting me delete it.
Just saying it's not empty anymore.
So what you have to do is you have to see the horizon first
do less Ahram file six to get rid of that file.
Now other directories.
Let's see if you could delete it.
No.
R and D are right.
So unless the directory is empty it's not going to let you delete it.
There's a record to delete.
So do our man on our DVR.
And there's a way you can delete it with everything in it.
All the files in it and recursively because you have a lot of files in it.
You don't want to go one by one and delete the files then delete the directory.
So there is a way to do it recursively.
And I'll let you research it by using men and pictures and I probably put this question in the quizzes
are are one of the assignments also so that way you'll get a refresher that will.